Support runtime programmatic set up for basic and form-based authentication using fluent API (#48659)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-basic-authentication.adoc

{project-name} also includes built-in security to allow for role-based access control (RBAC) based on the common security annotations `@RolesAllowed`, `@DenyAll`, `@PermitAll` on REST endpoints and CDI beans.
For more information, see the Quarkus xref:security-authorize-web-endpoints-reference.adoc[Authorization of web endpoints] guide.

[[basic-auth-programmatic-set-up]]
== Set up Basic authentication programmatically

> The `io.quarkus.vertx.http.security.event.Basic` CDI event allows to customize the configuration provided in the 'application.properties' during the runtime like in the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `io.quarkus.vertx.http.security.event.Basic` CDI event allows to configure the Basic authentication mechanism programmatically like in the example below:
```

Same suggestion as with the Form, even if it also works in the customization case as you suggest

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.http.security;

import io.quarkus.vertx.http.security.event.Basic;
import jakarta.enterprise.event.Observes;

public class BasicAuthenticationConfiguration {

    void configure(@Observes Basic basic) {
        basic
            .enable() <1>
            .realm("QuarkusTestRealm"); <2>
    }

}
----
<1> Enable basic authentication.

> Downside is that Quarkus doesn't know that the basic authentication is required during the build-time.

Reviewer: This probably should be moved to the `NOTE`, and instead of using a `downside` word,  clarify that using the build time configuration is needed for some cases like generating an OpenAPI schema, etc

> NOTE: If you generate an OpenAPI schema document with the SmallRye OpenAPI extension, the Basic authentication must be enabled during the build-time with the `quarkus.http.auth.basic` configuration property.

Reviewer: It should probably be:
```
[NOTE]
====
...
====
````
